before breaking in burglars try to learn
as much as they can if you have an alarm
system what kind of doors and windows
you have if you have a dog and so on if
you feel uncomfortable about weird
questions some stranger asked you
casually mentioned that you've recently
installed a super expensive home
security system your dog is nuts and
your partner is a cop oh and your mother
is a deputy sheriff at the local jail
know that something's not right
if somebody's taking pics of your house
and car they might even try to be sneaky
about it by pretending they're taking a
selfie or talking on the phone as they
snap the pic if you don't trust random
photographers stay cool and explain you
just don't want them to do it and that
it's your private property
burglars also might stage some accident
just to lure you out of your house a
fake utility worker can claim there's a
gas or water leak you leave the room for
a couple of minutes
but it's already too late an experienced
burglar can get what they need in as
little as 90 seconds always validate the
identity of strangers showing up like
this just call your utility provider
beware if you see some sticker or paint
on your door sure these could be just
coincidental nuisances but it can also
be a sign that someone wants to mark
your house and set it apart from the
rest get rid of it as soon as you can
burglars can leave marks and so can you
to find out if you've had some
unexpected visitors scoping the place
out leave some cookies under your
welcome mat if someone comes up to check
where you are they'll crush them it's a
crummy trick your doorbell rings you
answer it and nobody's on the other side
before you blame those neighborhood
pranksters again consider this someone
could be checking to see if your home
same goes for any strange calls you get
with nobody on the other line if you
still have a home phone that is
on that note don't just open the door at
any knock or ring verify who's on the
other side first if they say they're
from your utility company rental office
or city services ask them for ID and
call the company to get a check even if
you have a video doorbell anybody can
buy a uniform these days don't go based
on looks alone a seemingly innocent
flyer or ad under the doormat can also
mean your house is a target if it's
still there the next day it can make
burglars think that nobody's home
any person who finds some junk mail
under their feet will throw it away
right speaking of junk mail sometimes
we're just too lazy or absent-minded to
collect it but too much mail in the box
or a pile of old newspapers on the porch
send one message this home owner is away
and has been out for a while if you
really are away don't forget to stop
your mail delivery be careful when you
sell your car or any other big price
items delete the ads you post it as soon
as you sell it many burglars call and
pretend to be interested asking if you
still have it saying no sold it already
will let them know you've just gotten a
lot of money even if you spend it
already this person might like to break
in and find out for themselves be sure
to keep your shrubbery trimmed and your
lawn nice and neat one others will know
your home and taking care of the outdoor
chores and two overgrown bushes make a
great hiding place for intruders if
you'll be gone on vacation have someone
take care of your lawn for you when it
comes to hiding valuables remember the
kitchen bathroom and kids rooms are
usually the least interesting places for
intruders you can cut a slit in the back
of an empty shampoo bottle slide your
jewelry or spare cash into it and hide
it in plain sight plant pots also make
for great hiding places and fill your
home with houseplants who'd think to
check their and who'd want to check them
all remember that intruders can even
follow you on social media an innocent
status on Facebook like off on vacay see
in a week or sunrise in Bali don't ever
want to leave will let the bad guys know
nobody's home
keep your page private and don't over
share about vacations big purchases you
made or expensive gifts you've received
from loved ones your garbage can can
also tell a lot of things about you an
empty box for a new flat-screen TV
computer gadget gaming console they all
show that you have nice things and money
to spend and check any papers you throw
away your name date of birth social
security number password or credit card
number can end up in the wrong hands a
dog is the best alarm system you could
think of doesn't have to be a Rottweiler
or a German Shepherd barking dogs
attract attention
which means higher chances of getting
witnessed by neighbors and quat if
you're ready for the responsibility and
never-ending love and loyalty adopt
yourself a pooch or install fake
security cameras around your house if
you must the sight of them alone will
scare most burglars away same goes for
security company stickers on the windows
outside lighting is a must especially
when it's motion activated and if you
find your outdoor lightbulbs keep going
out it's cause for alarm have an
electrician check it out and if
nothing's wrong
it could be someone out there trying to
stay unidentified in the dark and when
you're gone for a while keep your indoor
lights lit too but not all the time a
dark house and a constantly lit house
can mean the same thing nobody's home
get a timer that'll mimic your typical
schedule they're on during work hours
and switch off at night you can hook TVs
and stereos up to those timers as well
don't keep spare keys under the doormat
in a potted outdoor plant or under some
rock in the garden if you're sitting
there right now thinking wow what
obvious cliche spots then you know
burglars are thinking the same thing and
we'll check them
do you have that little ball near the
front door where you throw your wallet
keys and watch when you get home many of
us do and burglars know it they can
break into the front door and grab the
valuables in that bowl you've just made
their job a lot easier
know your neighborhood statistics show
that there are fewer burglaries in areas
where neighbors know each other
new faces could be people who are lost
just moved in or up to no good keep
track of who's outside and how often if
someone's acting suspicious looking
around trying to keep their face covered
beware and do your part in the
neighborhood if you see a stranger
knocking on all the doors or checking
the locks first off take a picture so
you have hard evidence but do it
stealthily if the stranger won't go away
and keeps on consider calling the police
knowing your neighbors also means having
someone to keep your house looking lived
in while you're away if you trust your
new nearby friend enough give them the
keys to your house ask them to then
check your mail shovel your driveway of
snow mostly in winter what are the
flowers and other favors like that keep
a detailed record of all the valuables
that you have don't forget to make a
photocopy of all the essential documents
it's better to keep it in a cloud
documents are valuable for burglars
because they can be used for identity
theft if your house key suddenly got
stuck in the hole or you experienced
problems opening the door it can also be
a sign that your house is a target
better change the locks because it's
possible that someone tried to break in
yeah unexpected expenses are kind of
annoying but security comes first